# Intra-day-Forecasting-of-Nasdaq-The-Role-of-Market-Sentiment

  Market sentiment is a key driver of market fluctuations, often influenced by psychological arousal and emotional states triggered by financial news, earnings calls, or anticipated earnings reports. This sentiment-driven behavior significantly impacts short-term market movements and financial derivatives like futures and options. Recognizing the influence of sometimes irrational market agents presents opportunities to leverage sentiment for predicting trends, especially in the technology sector, represented by the volatile Nasdaq index.
  This work aimed to develop a recession fear measure by scraping financial news to predict the Nasdaq’s closing values. For sentiment analysis, FinBERT—a large language model specifically trained to assess market sentiment—was integrated with NewsAPI to gauge recession-related fear in U.S. markets (from 2024-10-02 to 2024-11-02). For validation, the 3-day moving average of FinBERT’s predictions was compared to the VIX index, a widely used measure of 30-day market volatility that acts as an indicator of market risk or fear. As expected, a positive correlation (ρ = 0.40) appeared between FinBERT's predictions and the VIX index (Figure 1). Additionally, a negative correlation with major U.S. market indexes was observed, with the strongest inverse relationship seen for the Nasdaq (ρ = -0.62), as shown in Figure 2. These correlations were observed at lag-0, with cross- correlation analysis indicating that this lag yielded the highest correlation.
  A linear regression analysis revealed that the recession fear index increased explained variance in predicting Nasdaq closing values (R2 = 0.29), outperforming models that used only the VIX index (R2 = 0.13) or Nasdaq lags alone (R2 = 0.24). The model with the highest predictive power accounted for 80% of the variance by incorporating both the recession fear index and NASDAQ lags for up to 5 days. This model, tested over 7 days, had a root mean square error (RMSE) of 177.02 (Figure 3).
  Future research could refine sentiment measures by integrating valence and arousal dimensions and analyzing specific emotions (happiness, anger, disgust, fear) to assess sector-specific market impacts. Identifying relevant market sectors may involve ticker indexing and clustering methods, or entity recognition with fine-tuned language models. This sentiment data could also enhance long-term forecasts using models like LSTM. This work provides a straightforward integration of large language models and NewsAPI for improved market sentiment analysis.

  
